ECLI:EU:C:2023:811                                                                                                          1
gives the following
Judgment
1 This request for a preliminary ruling concerns the interpretation of Article 12(5), Article 15(3) and 
Article 23(1)(i) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 
27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data 
and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data 
Protection Regulation) (OJ 2016 L 119, p. 1) (‘the GDPR’). Such information could be provided in 
electronic form, for example, when addressed to the public, through a website. The information 
shall be provided in writing, or by other means, including, where appropriate, by electronic means. 2023 – CASE C-307/22 
FT (COPIES OF MEDICAL RECORDS )
2.Where personal data are transferred to a third country or to an international organisation, the 
data subject shall have the right to be informed of the appropriate safeguards pursuant to 
Article 46 relating to the transfer. 3.The controller shall provide a copy of the personal data undergoing processing. For any further 
copies requested by the data subject, the controller may charge a reasonable fee based on 
administrative costs. Where the data subject makes the request by electronic means, and unless 
otherwise requested by the data subject, the information shall be provided in a commonly used 
electronic form. The second sentence of 
subparagraph 2 of Paragraph 630g of the BGB provides that the patient must reimburse the 
person providing treatment for the costs incurred. The dispute in the main proceedings and the questions referred for a preliminary ruling
18 DW received dental care from FT. FT 
informed DW that she would not grant his request unless he agreed to cover the costs connected 
with providing a copy of the medical records, as is provided for in national law. 23 First, the referring court notes that DW is requesting a first copy of his medical records with a 
view to triggering the liability of FT. Such a purpose is not related to that referred to in recital 63 
of the GDPR, which provides for the right to access personal data in order to become aware of the 
processing of those data and verify the lawfulness of that processing. Furthermore, 
the systematic transfer to patients of the costs connected with copies of their medical records 
could appear excessive, given that it does not take account either of the amount of costs actually 
incurred or of the circumstances specific to each request. 8                                                                                                                  ECLI:EU:C:2023:811JUDGMENT OF 26. 31 Regarding, first, the wording of the relevant provisions, it should be noted that Article 12(5) of the 
GDPR establishes the principle that the exercise of the data subject’s right of access to his or her 
data undergoing processing and to the information relating thereto is not to entail any cost for the 
data subject. Those reasons relate to instances of abuses of rights, in which the data subject’s requests are 
‘manifestly unfounded’ or ‘excessive’, in particular because of their repetitive character. 34 In addition, it is apparent from Article 15(3) of the GDPR that the controller is to provide a copy of 
the personal data undergoing processing and that it may charge a reasonable fee for any further 
copies requested by the data subject. ECLI:EU:C:2023:811                                                                                                                  9JUDGMENT OF 26. 2023 – CASE C-307/22 
FT (COPIES OF MEDICAL RECORDS )
38 It must be pointed out that neither the wording of Article 12(5) of the GDPR nor that of 
Article 15(1) and (3) thereof make the provision, free of charge, of a first copy of personal data 
conditional upon data subjects putting forward reasons to justify their requests. 42 It should also be noted that, in accordance with recital 59 of the GDPR, ‘modalities should be 
provided for facilitating the exercise of the data subject’s rights under this Regulation, including 
mechanisms to request and, if applicable, obtain, free of charge, in particular, access to and 
rectification or erasure of personal data and the exercise of the right to object’. 45 In addition, the second sentence of recital 63 of the GDPR states that the right which data subjects 
are recognised as having to access personal data includes, as regards data relating to their health, 
‘the data in their medical records containing information such as diagnoses, examination results, 
assessments by treating physicians and any treatment or interventions provided’. 52 Having regard to all of the foregoing, the answer to the first question is that Article 12(5) and 
Article 15(1) and (3) of the GDPR must be interpreted as meaning that the controller is under an 
obligation to provide the data subject, free of charge, with a first copy of his or her personal data 
undergoing processing, even where the reason for that request is not related to those referred to in 
the first sentence of recital 63 of that regulation. 55 Indeed, Article 23(1) of the GDPR merely indicates that a legislative measure of a Member State 
may restrict the scope of the obligations and rights provided for in Articles 12 to 22 of that 
regulation in so far as that measure corresponds to the rights and obligations provided for in 
those articles and when such a restriction respects the essence of the fundamental rights and 
freedoms and is a necessary and proportionate measure to safeguard, inter alia, the protection of 
the rights and freedoms of others. Furthermore, Article 12(5) of 
that regulation, read in the light of Article 15(1) and (3) thereof, permits the controller to protect 
itself against abuse of the right of access by charging a reasonable fee in the case of a manifestly 
unfounded or excessive request. However, 
such a possibility does not permit the adoption of a piece of national legislation which, with a view 
to protecting the economic interests of the controller, makes the data subject bear the costs of a 
first copy of his or her personal data undergoing processing. 71 First of all, the Court has held that, according to its wording, the first sentence of Article 15(3) of 
the GDPR confers on the data subject the right to obtain a faithful reproduction of his or her 
personal data, understood in a broad sense, that are subject to operations that can be classified as 
‘processing’ carried out by the controller (judgment of 4 May 2023 , Österreichische 
Datenschutzbehörde and CRIF , C-487/21 , EU:C:2023:369 , paragraph 28). That right entails 
the right to obtain a full copy of the documents included in his or her medical records and 
containing, inter alia, those data if the provision of such a copy is essential in order to enable the 
data subject to verify how accurate and exhaustive those data are, as well as to ensure they are 
intelligible. Costs
80 Since these proceedings are, for the parties to the main proceedings, a step in the action pending 
before the referring court, the decision on costs is a matter for that court. Costs incurred in 
submitting observations to the Court, other than the costs of those parties, are not recoverable. 2.Article 23(1)(i) of Regulation 2016/679
must be interpreted as meaning that a piece of national legislation adopted prior to the 
entry into force of that regulation is capable of falling within the scope of that provision.