2 The request has been made in proceedings between OQ and the Land Hessen (Federal State of 
Hesse, Germany) concerning the refusal of the Hessischer Beauftragter für Datenschutz und 
Informationsfreiheit (Data Protection and Freedom of Information Commissioner for the 
Federal State of Hesse, Germany; ‘the HBDI’) to order SCHUFA Holding AG (‘SCHUFA’) to 
grant an application lodged by OQ seeking to access and erase personal data concerning her. 4                                                                                                                  ECLI:EU:C:2023:957JUDGMENT OF 7. 11 Entitled ‘Automated individual decision-making, including profiling’, Article 22 of that regulation 
provides:
‘1.The data subject shall have the right not to be subject to a decision based solely on automated 
processing, including profiling, which produces legal effects concerning him or her or similarly 
significantly affects him or her. 2023 – CASE C-634/21 
SCHUFA HOLDING (SCORING )
The dispute in the main proceedings and the questions referred for a preliminary ruling
14 SCHUFA is a private company under German law which provides its contractual partners with 
information on the creditworthiness of third parties, in particular, consumers. 15 It is apparent from the request for a preliminary ruling that OQ was refused the granting of a loan 
by a third party after having been the subject of negative information established by SCHUFA and 
transmitted to that third party. OQ applied for SCHUFA to send her information on the personal 
data registered and to erase some of the data which was allegedly incorrect. However, referring to trade secrecy, it refused to disclose the 
various elements taken into account for the purposes of that calculation and their weighting. Lastly, SCHUFA stated that it limited itself to sending information to its contractual partners 
and it was those contractual partners which made the actual contractual decisions. 17 By a complaint lodged on 18 October 2018 , OQ asked the HBDI, the competent supervisory 
authority, to order SCHUFA to grant her request for access to information and erasure. 2023 – CASE C-634/21 
SCHUFA HOLDING (SCORING )
23 By contrast, if Article 22(1) of the GDPR were to be interpreted as meaning that the status of 
‘automated individual decision-making’ cannot be recognised, in a situation such as that at issue 
in the main proceedings, until the decision taken by the third party with regard to the data 
subject, this would result in a lacuna in legal protection. 26 By contrast, if the establishment of such a probability value does not constitute automated 
individual decision-making within the meaning of Article 22 of the GDPR, the opening clause 
appearing in paragraph 2(b) of that Article 22 would also not apply to national regulations 
regarding that activity. 29 In the second place, SCHUFA maintains that the referring court does not set out the specific 
reasons why the questions referred would be decisive for the resolution of the dispute in the main 
proceedings. 35 The first plea of inadmissibility put forward by SCHUFA must therefore be rejected. 37 Thus, it is not clear that the interpretation of the GDPR sought by the referring court bears no 
relation to the actual facts of the main action or its purpose and that the problem is hypothetical. Furthermore, the Court has before it the factual or legal material necessary to give a useful answer 
to the questions submitted to it. 41 In order to answer that question, it should be borne in mind, as a preliminary point, that the 
interpretation of a provision of EU law requires that account be taken not only of its wording, but 
also of its context and the objectives and purpose pursued by the act of which it forms part 
(judgment of 22 June 2023 , Pankki S, C-579/21 , EU:C:2023:501 , paragraph 38and the case-law 
cited). ECLI:EU:C:2023:957                                                                                                                11JUDGMENT OF 7. Under that recital, the term 
‘decision’ covers, for example, the automatic refusal of an online credit application or e-recruiting 
practices without human intervention. 50 It follows that, in circumstances such as those at issue in the main proceedings, in which the 
probability value established by a credit information agency and communicated to a bank plays a 
determining role in the granting of credit, the establishment of that value must be qualified in 
itself as a decision producing vis-à-vis a data subject ‘legal effects concerning him or her or 
similarly significantly [affecting] him or her’ within the meaning of Article 22(1) of the GDPR. That provision lays down a 
prohibition in principle, the infringement of which does not need to be invoked individually by 
such a person. In the cases referred to in points (a) and (c) of Article 22(2) of that regulation, the data 
controller is to implement at least the right of the data subject to obtain human intervention, to 
express his or her point of view and to contest the decision. 62 In that situation, the establishment of a probability value such as that at issue in the main 
proceedings would escape the specific requirements provided for in Article 22(2) to (4) of the 
GDPR, even though that procedure is based on automated processing and that it produces effects 
significantly affecting the data subject to the extent that the action of the third party to whom that 
probability value is transmitted draws strongly on it. Assuming that that 
provision is deemed incompatible with EU law, SCHUFA would act not only without legal basis, 
but would ipso iure disregard the prohibition laid down in Article 22(1) of the GDPR. The second question
74 Given the answer to the first question, there is no need to answer the second question.