2 The request has been made in proceedings between TU and RE, of the one part, and Google LLC, 
of the other part, concerning a request seeking, first, that articles in which they are identified be 
de-referenced from the results of a search carried out on the basis of their names and, second, 
that photographs representing them, displayed in the form of preview images (‘thumbnails’), be 
removed from the results of an image search. The processing of personal data should be designed to serve mankind. 13 Article 16 of the GDPR, entitled ‘Right of rectification’, provides:
‘The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller without undue delay the 
rectification of inaccurate personal data concerning him or her. 2022 – CASE C-460/20 
GOOGLE (DE-REFERENCING OF ALLEGEDLY INACCURATE CONTENT )
(f)the personal data have been collected in relation to the offer of information society services 
referred to in Article 8(1). He is also the sole shareholder in a third company, which is the 
sole shareholder in a fourth company, which in turn holds 60% of the shares in a fifth company. 16 RE was TU’s cohabiting partner and, until May 2015, held general commercial power of 
representation in that fourth company. Various publications criticised G-LLC’s business 
model, in particular accusing it of attempting to ‘blackmail’ companies by first publishing 
negative reports regarding those companies and then offering to delete them or prevent their 
publication, in exchange for a sum of money. In addition, when an 
image search was conducted on that search engine, Google displayed in the list of results, in the 
form of thumbnails, the photographs of the applicants in the main proceedings contained in the 
article of 4 June 2015 . Those photographs ceased being displayed in September 2017, at the 
latest. The articles ceased to be accessible on the g-net website from 28 June 2018 at the latest. They also claimed to have been victims of ‘blackmail’ by G-LLC. By judgment of 
22 November 2017 , that court dismissed the action. 23 The applicants in the main proceedings lodged an appeal against that judgment before the 
Oberlandesgericht Köln (Higher Regional Court, Cologne, Germany). As regards the photographs displayed in the form of thumbnails, they could, 
in so far as they accompany one of those articles, be regarded as being news images. However, the actual likelihood of obtaining enforcement of any order against the content provider 
requiring erasure is irrelevant as regards the rights vis-à-vis the operator of the search engine. Similarly, it is well known that the informed average user of an 
image search engine is aware of the fact that the thumbnails brought together by the search 
engine in a list of results are taken from third party publications and that the photographs 
corresponding to those thumbnails are displayed, in those publications, in a particular context. 63 In particular, where the data subject plays a role in public life, that person must display a greater 
degree of tolerance, since he or she is inevitably and knowingly exposed to public scrutiny (see, to 
that effect, ECtHR, 6 October 2022 , Khural and Zeynalov v. Azerbaijan, 
CE:ECHR:2022:1006JUD005506911, § 41 and the case-law cited). However, in order to avoid imposing on 
that person an excessive burden which is liable to undermine the practical effect of the right to 
de-referencing, that person has to provide only evidence that, in the light of the circumstances of 
the particular case, can reasonably be required of him or her to try to find in order to establish that 
manifest inaccuracy. To impose such an 
obligation on that person would have the effect of imposing an unreasonable burden on him or 
her. In so far as it would require the operator of the search engine to contribute 
ECLI:EU:C:2022:962                                                                                                                15JUDGMENT OF 8. 2022 – CASE C-460/20 
GOOGLE (DE-REFERENCING OF ALLEGEDLY INACCURATE CONTENT )
to establishing itself whether or not the referenced content is accurate, such an obligation would 
impose on that operator a burden in excess of what can reasonably be expected of it in the light of 
its responsibilities, powers and capabilities, within the meaning of the case-law referred to in 
paragraph 53 of the present judgment. 73 By contrast, where the inaccuracy of such information found in the referenced content is not 
obvious, in the light of the evidence provided by the data subject, the operator of the search 
engine is not required, where there is no such judicial decision, to accede to such a request for 
de-referencing. 74 It should be added that, in accordance with what has been stated in paragraph 65 of the present 
judgment, it would also be disproportionate to de-reference articles, with the result that 
accessing all of them on the internet would be difficult, in a situation where only certain 
information of minor importance, in relation to the content found in those articles as a whole, 
proves to be inaccurate. 75 Lastly, it must be stated that, where the operator of a search engine does not grant the request for 
de-referencing, the data subject must be able to bring the matter before the supervisory authority 
or the judicial authority so that it carries out the necessary checks and orders that controller to 
adopt the necessary measures (see, to that effect, judgment of 13 May 2014 , Google Spain and 
Google (C-131/12 , EU:C:2014:317 , paragraph 77). 76 However, where administrative or judicial proceedings concerning the alleged inaccuracy of 
information found in referenced content are initiated and where the existence of those 
proceedings has been brought to the attention of the operator of the search engine concerned, it 
is for that operator, for the purposes, inter alia, of providing internet users with information which 
continues to be relevant and up-to-date, to add to the search results a warning concerning the 
existence of such proceedings. 16                                                                                                                ECLI:EU:C:2022:962JUDGMENT OF 8. First of all, Google takes the view that the subject 
matter of the dispute in the main proceedings is not a request to de-reference the results of an 
image search carried out on the basis of the names of the applicants in the main proceedings, but 
rather a general prohibition on displaying thumbnails corresponding to photographs illustrating 
one of the three articles at issue in the main proceedings. Photographs are, as such, an important means of 
attracting internet users’ attention and may encourage an interest in accessing the articles they 
illustrate. Since, in particular, photographs are often open to a number of interpretations, 
displaying them in the list of search results as thumbnails may, in accordance with what has been 
stated in paragraph 95 of the present judgment, result in a particularly serious interference with 
the data subject’s right to protection of his or her image, which must be taken into account when 
weighing-up competing rights and interests. In the context of that autonomous assessment, 
account must be taken of the fact that the display of the photographs in the form of thumbnails 
on the internet constitutes, in itself, the result sought by the internet user, regardless of his or her 
subsequent decision to access the original internet page or not. 105 It should be added that such a specific weighing-up exercise, which takes account of the 
autonomous nature of the data processing performed by the operator of the search engine, is 
without prejudice to the possible relevance of text elements which may directly accompany the 
display of a photograph in the list of search results, since such elements are capable of casting 
light on the informative value of that photograph for the public and, consequently, of influencing 
the weighing-up of the rights and interests involved. ECLI:EU:C:2022:962                                                                                                                21JUDGMENT OF 8. Costs incurred in 
submitting observations to the Court, other than the costs of those parties, are not recoverable.