2 The request has been made in proceedings between GC, AF, BH and ED and the Commission 
nationale de l’informatique et des libertés (French Data Protection Authority, France) (‘the CNIL’) 
concerning four decisions of the CNIL refusing to serve formal notice on Google Inc., now Google 
LLC, to de-reference various links appearing in the lists of results displayed following searches of their 
names and leading to web pages published by third parties. Member States shall provide that personal data must be: 
(a) processed fairly and lawfully; 
ECLI:EU:C:2019 :773 3 
JUDGMENT OF 24. However, a complete register of criminal convictions 
may be kept only under the control of official authority. Member States may provide that data relating to administrative sanctions or judgments in civil cases 
shall also be processed under the control of official authority. Each supervisory authority shall hear claims lodged by any person, or by an association representing 
that person, concerning the protection of his rights and freedoms in regard to the processing of 
personal data. The person concerned shall be informed of the outcome of the claim. Each authority may be requested to exercise its powers by an authority 
of another Member State. The supervisory authorities shall cooperate with one another to the extent necessary for the 
performance of their duties, in particular by exchanging all useful information. 17 Article 9 of Regulation 2016 /679, headed ‘Processing of special categories of personal data’, provides: 
‘1. 2019 — CASE C-136/17  
GC AND OTHERS (DE-REFERENCING OF SENSITIVE DATA)  
20 Article 21 of Regulation 2016 /679, headed ‘Right to object’, provides in paragraph 1: 
‘The data subject shall have the right to object, on grounds relating to his or her particular situation, at 
any time to processing of personal data concerning him or her which is based on point (e) or (f) of 
Article 6(1), including profiling based on those provisions. The photomontage 
was placed online during the campaign for the cantonal elections in which GC was then a candida te. AF is mentioned in that article in his capacity as public relations 
officer of the Church of Scientology, an occupation which he has since ceased to exercise. Furthermore, the author of the article states that he contacted AF in order to obtain his version of the 
facts and describes the comme nts received on that occasion. The proceedings against him 
were closed by an order discharging him on 26 February 2010 . Most of the links are to articles 
contemp oraneous with the opening of the investigation and therefore do not mention the outcome of 
the proceedings. 29 Following the rejections by Google of their requests for de-referencing, the applicants in the main 
proceedings brought complaints before the CNIL, seeking for Google to be ordered to de-reference 
the links in question. That directive was repealed with effect from 
25 May 2018 , from which date Regulation 2016 /679 applies. On the contrary, as already pointed out in paragraph 37 above, it follows from the 
general scheme of those instruments that the operator of a search engine must, in the same way as 
any other controller, ensure, in the context of his responsibilities, powers and capabilities, that the 
processing of personal data carried out by him complies with the respective requirements of Directive 
95/46 or Regulation 2016 /679. 45 While, contrary to the submissions of Google in particular, the specific features of the processing 
carried out by the operator of a search engine in connection with the activity of the search engine 
cannot thus justify the operator being exemp ted from compliance with Article 8(1) and (5) of Directive 
95/46 and Article 9(1) and Article 10 of Regulation 2016 /679, those specific features may, however, 
have an effect on the extent of the operator’s responsibility and obligations under those provisions. Among 
those grounds is, in Article 17(3)(a) of the regulation, the exercise of the right of freedom of 
expression and information. Question 3 
70 As this question is asked only in the event that Question 1 is answered in the negative, there is no 
need to answer it, given the affirmative answer to Question 1. As the Commission observed, such processing may, by virtue of those provisions and subject to 
compliance with the other conditions of lawfulness laid down by that directive, be lawful in particular 
if appropriate and specific guarantees are provided for by national law, which may be the case where 
the information in question has been disclosed to the public by the public authorities in compliance 
with the applicable national law. 2019 — CASE C-136/17  
GC AND OTHERS (DE-REFERENCING OF SENSITIVE DATA)  
74 As regards those other conditions of lawfulness, it must be recalled that it follows from the 
requirements laid down in Article 6(1)(c) to (e) of Directive 95/46, now repeated in Article 5(1)(c) 
to (e) of Regulation 2016 /679, that even initially lawful processing of accurate data may over time 
become incompatible with the directive or the regulation where those data are no longer necessary in 
the light of the purposes for which they were collected or processed. In seeking that fair balance, account must be taken of the essential role played by the 
press in a democratic society, which includes reporting and comme nting on legal proceedings. Costs 
80 Since these proceedings are, for the parties to the main proceedings, a step in the action pending 
before the national court, the decision on costs is a matter for that court. Costs incurred in 
submitting observations to the Court, other than the costs of those parties, are not recoverable.