2 The request has been m ade in proceedings between, on th e on e hand, Google Spain SL (‘Google 
Spain’) and Google Inc. and, on th e other, the Agencia Es pañola de Protección d e Datos (Spanish 
Data Protection A gency; ‘the AEPD’) and M r Costeja González concerning a d ecision b y the AEPD 
upholding th e complaint lodged by M r Costeja González against those two companies and ordering 
Google Inc. to ad opt th e me asures necessary to w ithdraw pe rsonal da ta relating to M r Costeja 
González from its index and to prevent access to the data in the future. Each authority may be requested to exercise its powers by an authority 
of another Member State. The supervisory authorities shall cooperate w ith on e another to th e extent necessary for th e 
performance of their duties, in particular by exchanging all useful information. —
ECLI:EU:C:2014 :317 7JUDGMENT O F13.5.2014 —CASEC-131/12
GOOG LESPAINAND GOOG LE
16 By decision o f 30 July 2010 , the AEPD r ejected the complaint in so far as it related to La Vanguardia , 
taking the view th at the publication b y it of the information in question w as legally justified as it took 
place upon o rder of the M inistry of Labour and Social Affairs and was intended to give m aximum 
publicity to the auction in order to secure as many bidders as possible. 18 Google Spain and Google Inc. brought separate actions against that decision b efore th e Au diencia 
Nacional (National High Court). If the 
answer to th at question i s affirmative, can it be considered th at that connecting factor is 
present when th e undertaking refuses to di sclose th e place where it stores those indexes, 
invoking reasons of compe tition? 27 So far as concerns the activity at issue in the main proceedings, it is no t contested that the data found, 
indexed and stored by search engines and made available to their users include information r elating to 
identified or identifiable natural persons and thus ‘personal data’ within th e me aning of Article 2(a) of 
that dir ective. It has indeed observed in th at regard th at a g eneral 
derogation from th e application o f Directive 95 /46 in such a c ase would largely deprive th e dir ective 
of its effect (see, to th is effect, C ase C -73/07 S atakunnan M arkkinapörssi and S atamedia 
EU:C:2008 :727, paragraphs 48 a nd 49). 40 That fact does no t alter the position th at the purposes and me ans of that processing are determined by 
the operator of the search engine. In numerous States, a 
local version ada pted to th e national language exists. The version o f Google Search in Spanish is 
offered th rough th e website ‘w w w .google.es’, which has been registered since 16 September 2003 . Google Search is on e of the most used search engines in Spain. — Google Search is operated by Google Inc., which is the parent company of the Google Group and 
has its seat in the United States. Its objects are to promote, facilitate and effect the sale of 
on-line advertising products and services to third p arties and the marketing of that advertising. 49 It is no t disputed that Google Spain engages in the effective and real exercise of activity through stable 
arrangements in Spain. 59 Since th e first of the th ree c onditions listed by th e referring court suffices by itself for it to be 
concluded th at an e stablishment such as G oogle Spain satisfies th e criterion l aid d own in 
Article 4(1)(a) of Directive 95 /46, it is unnecessary to examine the other two conditions. 65 Mr Costeja González, th e Spanish, Italian and Polish Governments and th e Commission s ubmit that 
the national authority may dir ectly order the operator of a s earch engine to withdraw from its indexes 
and intermediate mem ory information c ontaining pe rsonal da ta th at has been published by th ird 
parties, without having to approach beforehand or simultaneously the publisher of the web page on 
which th at information a ppears. In th is context, th e controller must take eve ry reasonable step to ensure that data which 
do no t mee t the requirements of that provision ar e erased or rectified. Wh ere the controller 
does no t grant the request, th e da ta subject may bring the matter before the supervisory authority or 
the judicial authority so th at it carries out the necessary checks a nd orders the controller to take 
specific me asures accordingly. 87 Indeed, since the inclusion in th e list of results, displayed following a s earch m ade on th e basis of a 
person’s name, of a w eb page and of the information c ontained on i t relating to th at person m akes 
access to th at information a ppreciably easier for any internet user making a s earch in respect of the 
person c oncerned and may play a d ecisive role in th e dissemination o f that information, it is liable to 
constitute a m ore significant interference with th e da ta subject’s fundamental right to privacy than the 
publication on th e web page. 93 It follows from th ose requirements, laid d own in Article 6(1)(c) to (e) of Directive 95 /46, that eve n 
initially lawful processing of accurate da ta may, in th e course of time, become i ncompatible with th e 
directive w here those da ta are no l onger necessary in th e light o f the purposes for which th ey were 
collected or processed. That is so in particular w here they appear to be inadequate, irrelevant or no 
longer relevant, or excessive in relation t o th ose purposes and in th e light o f the time th at has 
elapsed. 95 So far as concerns requests as provided for by Article 12(b) of Directive 95 /46 founded on a lleged 
non-compliance with th e conditions laid d own in A rticle 7(f) of the dir ective a nd requests under 
subparagraph (a) of the first paragraph of Article 14 o f the dir ective, it must be pointed out that in 
each case the processing of personal data must be authorised under Article 7 for the entire pe riod 
during which it is carried out. 20 ECLI:EU:C:2014 :317JUDGMENT O F13.5.2014 —CASEC-131/12
GOOG LESPAINAND GOOG LE
96 In th e light of the foregoing, when appraising such requests made in order to oppose processing such 
as that at issue in th e main proceedings, it should in particular be examined whether the da ta subject 
has a ri ght th at the information r elating to him pe rsonally should, at this point in time, no l onger be 
linked to his name b y a l ist of results displayed following a s earch made on th e basis of his name. As the da ta subject may, in th e light of his fundamental rights under Articles 7 and 8 of the Ch arter, 
request that the information in question no l onger be made available to the general public on a ccount 
of its inclusion in such a l ist of results, those rights override, as a r ule, not only the economic interest 
of the operator of the search engine but also the interest of the general public in having access to that 
information u pon a s earch relating to the data subject’s name. However, that would no t be the case if it 
appeared, for particular reasons, such as the role played by th e da ta subject in public life, that the 
interference with h is fundamental rights is justified by the preponderant interest of the general public 
in having, on a ccount of its inclusion in the list of results, access to the information in question. Costs
100 Since th ese proceedings are, for the parties to th e main proceedings, a s tep in th e action pe nding 
before th e referring court, th e decision on c osts is a m atter for th at court. C osts incurred in 
submitting observations to the Court, other than the costs of those parties, are no t recoverable.