2003 — CASE C-101/01 
JUDGMENT OF THE COURT 
6 November 2003 * 
In Case C-101/01, 
REFERENCE to the Court under Article 234 EC by the Göta hovrätt (Sweden) 
for a preliminary ruling in the criminal proceedings before that court against 
Bodil Lindqvist, 
on, inter alia, the interpretation of Directive 95/46/EC of the European 
Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of 
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free 
movement of such data (OJ 1995 L 281, p. 31), 
* Language of the case: Swedish. This Directive shall not apply to the processing of personal data: 
I - 12995 
JUDGMENT OF 6. However, a complete register 
of criminal convictions may be kept only under the control of official authority. Member States may provide that data relating to administrative sanctions or 
judgements in civil cases shall also be processed under the control of official 
authority. Where the Commission finds, under the procedure provided for in 
Article 31(2), that a third country does not ensure an adequate level of protection 
within the meaning of paragraph 2 of this Article, Member States shall take the 
measures necessary to prevent any transfer of data of the same type to the third 
country in question. The main proceedings and the questions referred 
12 In addition to her job as a maintenance worker, Mrs Lindqvist worked as a 
catechist in the parish of Alseda (Sweden). She followed a data processing course 
on which she had inter alia to set up a home page on the internet. At her request, the administrator of the Swedish 
Church's website set up a link between those pages and that site. In many cases family 
circumstances and telephone numbers and other matters were mentioned. She 
removed the pages in question as soon as she became aware that they were not 
appreciated by some of her colleagues. Observations submitted to the Court 
20 Mrs Lindqvist submits that it is unreasonable to take the view that the mere 
mention by name of a person or of personal data in a document contained on an 
I - 13006 
LINDQVIST 
internet page constitutes automatic processing of data. In that connection, placing information on an internet page 
entails, under current technical and computer procedures, the operation of 
loading that page onto a server and the operations necessary to make that page 
accessible to people who are connected to the internet. Such operations are 
performed, at least in part, automatically. The second question 
28 As the first question has been answered in the affirmative, there is no need to 
reply to the second question, which arises only in the event that the first question 
is answered in the negative. The third question 
29 By its third question, the national court essentially seeks to know whether 
processing of personal data such as that described in the first question is covered 
by one of the exceptions in Article 3(2) of Directive 95/46. 32 According to the Netherlands Government, automatic processing of data such as 
that at issue in the main proceedings does not fall within any of the exceptions in 
Article 3(2) of Directive 95/46. 35 The Commission argues that Community law is not limited to economic activities 
connected with the four fundamental freedoms. 2003 — CASE C-101/01 
38 The first exception concerns the processing of personal data in the course of an 
activity which falls outside the scope of Community law, such as those provided 
for by Titles V and VI of the Treaty on European Union, and in any case 
processing operations concerning public security, defence, State security (includ­
ing the economic well-being of the State when the processing operation relates to 
State security matters) and the activities of the State in areas of criminal law. 46 As regards the exception provided for in the second indent of Article 3(2) of 
Directive 95/46, the 12th recital in the preamble to that directive, which concerns 
that exception, cites, as examples of the processing of data carried out by a 
natural person in the exercise of activities which are exclusively personal or 
domestic, correspondence and the holding of records of addresses. 51 The answer to the fourth question must therefore be that reference to the fact that 
an individual has injured her foot and is on half-time on medical grounds 
I - 13014 
LINDQVIST 
constitutes personal data concerning health within the meaning of Article 8(1) of 
Directive 95/46. Observations submitted to the Court 
53 The Commission and the Swedish Government consider that the loading, using a 
computer, of personal data onto an internet page, so that they become accessible 
to nationals of third countries, constitutes a transfer of data to third countries 
within the meaning of Directive 95/46. 55 The United Kingdom Government submits that Article 25 of Directive 95/46 
concerns the transfer of data to third countries and not their accessibility from 
third countries. The term 'transfer' connotes the transmission of personal data 
from one place and person to another place and person. 58 Information on the internet can be consulted by an indefinite number of people 
living in many places at almost any time. 59 Under the procedures for use of the internet available to individuals like Mrs 
Lindqvist during the 1990s, the author of a page intended for publication on the 
internet transmits the data making up that page to his hosting provider. That 
provider manages the computer infrastructure needed to store those data and 
connect the server hosting the site to the internet. It must be stressed that the fifth question asked by the referring court 
concerns only those activities and not those carried out by the hosting providers. 63 Chapter IV of Directive 95/46, in which Article 25 appears, sets up a special 
regime, with specific rules, intended to allow the Member States to monitor 
transfers of personal data to third countries. I - 13018 
LINDQVIST 
65 For its part, Article 25 of Directive 95/46 imposes a series of obligations on 
Member States and on the Commission for the purposes of monitoring transfers 
of personal data to third countries in the light of the level of protection afforded 
to such data in each of those countries. 2003 — CASE C-101/01 
69 If Article 25 of Directive 95/46 were interpreted to mean that there is 'transfer [of 
data] to a third country' every time that personal data are loaded onto an internet 
page, that transfer would necessarily be a transfer to all the third countries where 
there are the technical means needed to access the internet. It adds that only the national court can 
I - 13021 
JUDGMENT OF 6. Those objectives may of course be inconsistent with one another. 83 As regards Directive 95/46 itself, its provisions are necessarily relatively general 
since it has to be applied to a large number of very different situations. 87 Consequently, it is for the authorities and courts of the Member States not only to 
interpret their national law in a manner consistent with Directive 95/46 but also 
to make sure they do not rely on an interpretation of it which would be in conflict 
with the fundamental rights protected by the Community legal order or with the 
other general principles of Community law, such as inter alia the principle of 
proportionality. It is for the national authorities and courts responsible 
for applying the national legislation implementing Directive 95/46 to ensure a fair 
balance between the rights and interests in question, including the fundamental 
rights protected by the Community legal order. 2003 — CASE C-101/01 
Observations submitted to the Court 
92 The Swedish Government states that Directive 95/46 is not confined to fixing 
minimum conditions for the protection of personal data. Member States are 
obliged, in the course of implementing that directive, to attain the level of 
protection dictated by it and are not empowered to provide for greater or less 
protection. Moreover, the Member States are free to apply the principles of Directive 95/46 
also to activities which do not fall within its scope. However, such 
possibilities must be made use of in the manner provided for by Directive 95/46 
and in accordance with its objective of maintaining a balance between the free 
movement of personal data and the protection of private life. 2003 — CASE C-101/01 
data and the protection of private life. Since these proceedings 
are, for the parties to the main proceedings, a step in the action pending before 
the national court, the decision on costs is a matter for that court. Jann Timmermans Gulmann 
Cunha Rodrigues Rosas Edward 
Puissochet Macken von Bahr 
Delivered in open court in Luxembourg on 6 November 2003.