Douglas HURD,

Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs;

The Hon. Its task shall be to organize, in a manner demonstrating consistency and solidarity, relations between the Member States and between their peoples. They shall ensure the implementation of these policies, each in accordance with its respective powers. Article D

The European Council shall provide the Union with the necessary impetus for its development and shall define the general political guidelines thereof. `

4) The following Article shall be inserted:

'Article 3a

1. For the purposes set out in Article 2, the activities of the Member States and the Community shall include, as provided in this Treaty and in accordance with the timetable set out therein, the adoption of an economic policy which is based on the close coordination of Member States' economic policies, on the internal market and on the definition of common objectives, and conducted in accordance with the principle of an open market economy with free competition. Each institution shall act within the limits of the powers conferred upon it by this Treaty. C. The following Part shall be inserted:

'PART TWO

CITIZENSHIP OF THE UNION

Article 8

1. The Council may adopt provisions with a view to facilitating the exercise of the rights referred to in paragraph 1; save as otherwise provided in this Treaty, the Council shall act unanimously on a proposal from the Commission and after obtaining the assent of the European Parliament. This right shall be exercised subject to detailed arrangements to be adopted before 31 December 1993 by the Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the European Parliament; these arrangements may provide for derogations where warranted by problems specific to a Member State. In the case of the medical and allied and pharmaceutical professions, the progressive abolition of restrictions shall be dependent upon coordination of the conditions for their exercise in the various Member States. Within the framework of the provisions set out in this Chapter, all restrictions on the movement of capital between Member States and between Member States and third countries shall be prohibited. The Commission and the other Member States shall be informed of such measures by the date of their entry into force at the latest. `

16) Article 75 shall be replaced by the following:

'Article 75

1. From 1 January 1996, the Council shall adopt the decisions referred to in paragraph 1 by a qualified majority. This Article shall be without prejudice to the exercise of the responsibilities incumbent upon the Member States with regard to the maintenance of law and order and the safeguarding of internal security. `

25) Title II, Chapters 1, 2 and 3 in Part Three shall be replaced by the following:

'TITLE VI

ECONOMIC AND MONETARY POLICY

Chapter 1

Economic policy

Article 102a

Member States shall conduct their economic policies with a view to contributing to the achievement of the objectives of the Community, as defined in Article 2, and in the context of the broad guidelines referred to in Article 103(2). Member States shall regard their economic policies as a matter of common concern and shall coordinate them within the Council, in accordance with the provisions of Article 102a. The European Council shall, acting on the basis of the report from the Council, discuss a conclusion on the broad guidelines of the economic policies of the Member States and of the Community. Where it is established, under the procedure referred to in paragraph 3, that the economic policies of a Member State are not consistent with the broad guidelines referred to in paragraph 2 or that they risk jeopardizing the proper functioning of economic and monetary union, the Council may, acting by a qualified majority on a recommendation from the Commission, make the necessary recommendations to the Member State concerned. The Council may, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, decide to make its recommendations public. The President of the Council shall inform the European Parliament of the decision taken. Subject to the other provisions of this paragraph the Council shall, before 1 January 1994, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the European Parliament, lay down detailed rules and definitions for the application of the provisions of the said Protocol. The bank notes issued by the ECB and the national central banks shall be the only such notes to have the status of legal tender within the Community. The Statute of the ESCB is laid down in a Protocol annexed to this Treaty. Article 107

When exercising the powers and carrying out the tasks and duties conferred upon them by this Treaty and the Statute of the ESCB, neither the ECB, nor a national central bank, nor any member of their decision-making bodies shall seek or take instructions from Community institutions or bodies, from any government of a Member State or from any other body. It shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. A decision shall be binding in its entirety upon those to whom it is addressed. Articles 190 to 192 shall apply to regulations and decisions adopted by the ECB. The ECB may decide to publish its decisions, recommendations and opinions. Within the limits and under the conditions adopted by the Council under the procedure laid down in Article 106(6), the ECB shall be entitled to impose fines or periodic penalty payments on undertakings for failure to comply with obligations under its regulations and decisions. In the absence of an exchange rate system in relation to one or more non-Community currencies as referred to in paragraph 1, the Council, acting by a qualified majority either on a recommendation from the Commission and after consulting the ECB or on a recommendation from the ECB, may formulate general orientations for exchange rate policy in relation to these currencies. These general orientations shall be without prejudice to the primary objective of the ESCB to maintain price stability. The Commission shall be fully associated with the negotiations. Without prejudice to Community competence and Community agreements as regards economic and monetary union, Member States may negotiate in international bodies and conclude international agreements. Their term of office shall be eight years and shall not be renewable. The President of the ECB shall present this report to the Council and to the European Parliament, which may hold a general debate on that basis. The President shall be selected from among persons of recognized standing and professional experience in monetary or banking matters. The EMI, acting unanimously, may decide to publish its opinions and its recommendations. Within the limits and under the conditions set out by the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the European Parliament and the EMI, the EMI shall be consulted by the authorities of the Member States on any draft legislative provision within its field of competence. The Commission shall state what measures it recommends the State concerned to take. If the action taken by a Member State and the measures suggested by the Commission do not prove sufficient to overcome the difficulties which have arisen or which threaten, the Commission shall, after consulting the Committee referred to in Article 109c, recommend to the Council the granting of mutual assistance and appropriate methods therefor. The Commission shall keep the Council regularly informed of the situation and of how it is developing. Subject to Article 109k(6), this Article shall cease to apply from the beginning of the third stage. After the Commission has delivered an opinion and the Committee referred to in Article 109c has been consulted, the Council may, acting by a qualified majority, decide that the State concerned shall amend, suspend or abolish the protective measures referred to above. The four criteria mentioned in this paragraph and the relevant periods over which they are to be respected are developed further in a Protocol annexed to this Treaty. Such Member States shall in this Treaty be referred to as "Member States with a derogation". In Articles 105(1), (2) and (3), 105a, 108a, 109 and 109a(2)(b), "Member States" shall be read as "Member States without a derogation". Immediately after the decision on the date for the beginning of the third stage has been taken in accordance with Article 109j(3), or, as the case may be, immediately after 1 July 1998:

- the Council shall adopt the provisions referred to in Article 106(6);

- the governments of the Member States without a derogation shall appoint, in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 50 of the Statute of the ESCB, the President, the Vice-President and the other members of the Executive Board of the ECB. This measure shall by itself not modify the external value of the ECU. If it is decided, according to the procedure set out in Article 109k(2), to abrogate a derogation, the Council shall, acting with the unanimity of the Member States without a derogation and the Member State concerned, on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the ECB, adopt the rate at which the ECU shall be substituted for the currency of the Member State concerned, and take the other measures necessary for the introduction of the ECU as the single currency in the Member State concerned. Failing this, the Commission may authorize Member States to take the necessary protective measures, the conditions and details of which it shall determine. In order to contribute to the achievement of the objectives referred to in this Article, the Council:

- acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 189b, after consulting the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, shall adopt incentive measures, excluding any harmonization of the laws and regulations of the Member States;

- acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt recommendations. The Community and the Member States shall foster cooperation with third countries and the competent international organizations in the sphere of culture, in particular the Council of Europe. Community action shall be directed towards the prevention of diseases, in particular the major health scourges, including drug dependence, by promoting research into their causes and their transmission, as well as health information and education. The Commission may, in close contact with the Member States, take any useful initiative to promote such coordination. Article 129d

The guidelines referred to in Article 129c(1) shall be adopted by the Council, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 189b and after consulting the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. The Member States shall consult each other in liaison with the Commission and, where necessary, shall coordinate their action. This Title shall not provide a basis for the introduction by the Community of any measure which could lead to a distortion of competition. This report shall, if necessary, be accompanied by appropriate proposals. TITLE XV

RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT

Article 130f

1. In close cooperation with the Member States, the Commission may take any useful initiative to promote the coordination referred to in paragraph 1. The Council shall act unanimously throughout the procedures referred to in Article 189b. Each specific programme shall define the detailed rules for implementing it, fix its duration and provide for the means deemed necessary. The sum of the amounts deemed necessary, fixed in the specific programmes, may not exceed the overall maximum amount fixed for the framework programme and each activity. The Council shall adopt the rules applicable to supplementary programmes, particularly as regards the dissemination of knowledge and access by other Member States. The arrangements for Community cooperation may be the subject of agreements between the Community and the third parties concerned, which shall be negotiated and concluded in accordance with Article 228. Article 130v

The Community shall take account of the objectives referred to in Article 130u in the policies that it implements which are likely to affect developing countries. The Community and the Member States shall coordinate their policies on development cooperation and shall consult each other on their aid programmes, including in international organizations and during international conferences. The European Parliament shall draw up proposals for elections by direct universal suffrage in accordance with a uniform procedure in all Member States. The Council shall, acting unanimously after obtaining the assent of the European Parliament, which shall act by a majority of its component members, lay down the appropriate provisions, which it shall recommend to Member States for adoption in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements. The temporary Committee of Inquiry shall cease to exist on the submission of its report. In accordance with his duties, the Ombudsman shall conduct inquiries for which he finds grounds, either on his own initiative or on the basis of complaints submitted to him direct or through a member of the European Parliament, except where the alleged facts are or have been the subject of legal proceedings. The Ombudsman shall then forward a report to the European Parliament and the institution concerned. The person lodging the complaint shall be informed of the outcome of such inquiries. The Ombudsman shall be appointed after each election of the European Parliament for the duration of its term of office. The Ombudsman may be dismissed by the Court of Justice at the request of the European Parliament if he no longer fulfils the conditions required for the performance of his duties or if he is guilty of serious misconduct. The Ombudsman shall be completely independent in the performance of his duties. In the performance of those duties he shall neither seek nor take instructions from any body. The Ombudsman may not, during his term of office, engage in any other occupation, whether gainful or not. The European Parliament shall, after seeking an opinion from the Commission and with the approval of the Council acting by a qualified majority, lay down the regulations and general conditions governing the performance of the Ombudsman's duties. The office of President shall be held in turn by each Member State in the Council for a term of six months, in the following order of Member States:

- for a first cycle of six years: Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Spain, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, United Kingdom;

- for the following cycle of six years: Denmark, Belgium, Greece, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Ireland, Netherlands, Luxembourg, United Kingdom, Portugal. A committee consisting of the Permanent Representatives of the Member States shall be responsible for preparing the work of the Council and for carrying out the tasks assigned to it by the Council. The Council shall be assisted by a General Secretariat, under the direction of a Secretary-General. The Secretary-General shall be appointed by the Council acting unanimously. The Council shall decide on the organization of the General Secretariat. `

47) The following Article shall be inserted:

'Article 154

The Council shall, acting by a qualified majority, determine the salaries, allowances and pensions of the President and members of the Commission, and of the President, Judges, Advocates-General and Registrar of the Court of Justice. It shall also, again by a qualified majority, determine any payment to be made instead of remuneration. The Commission shall consist of seventeen members, who shall be chosen on the grounds of their general competence and whose independence is beyond doubt. The number of members of the Commission may be altered by the Council, acting unanimously. The Commission must include at least one national of each of the Member States, but may not include more than two members having the nationality of the same State. The members of the Commission shall, in the general interest of the Community, be completely independent in the performance of their duties. In the performance of these duties, they shall neither seek nor take instructions from any government or from any other body. They shall refrain from any action incompatible with their duties. Each Member State undertakes to respect this principle and not to seek to influence the members of the Commission in the performance of their tasks. The members of the Commission may not, during their term of office, engage in any other occupation, whether gainful or not. When entering upon their duties they shall give a solemn undertaking that, both during and after their term of office, they will respect the obligations arising therefrom and in particular their duty to behave with integrity and discretion as regards the acceptance, after they have ceased to hold office, of certain appointments or benefits. The members of the Commission shall be appointed, in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 2, for a period of five years, subject, if need be, to Article 144. The governments of the Member States shall nominate by common accord, after consulting the European Parliament, the person they intend to appoint as President of the Commission. The governments of the Member States shall, in consultation with the nominee for President, nominate the other persons whom they intend to appoint as members of the Commission. The President and the other members of the Commission thus nominated shall be subject as a body to a vote of approval by the European Parliament. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be applied for the first time to the President and the other members of the Commission whose term of office begins on 7 January 1995. The President and the other members of the Commission whose term of office begins on 7 January 1993 shall be appointed by common accord of the governments of the Member States. Article 159

Apart from normal replacement, or death, the duties of a member of the Commission shall end when he resigns or is compulsorily retired. The vacancy thus caused shall be filled for the remainder of the member's term of office by a new member appointed by common accord of the governments of the Member States. The Council may, acting unanimously, decide that such a vacancy need not be filled. In the event of resignation, compulsory retirement or death, the President shall be replaced for the remainder of his term of office. The Council and the Commission shall consult each other and shall settle by common accord their methods of cooperation. The Commission shall adopt its rules of procedure so as to ensure that both it and its departments operate in accordance with the provisions of this Treaty. The Court of Justice shall sit in plenary session when a Member State or a Community institution that is a party to the proceedings so requests. A Court of First Instance shall be attached to the Court of Justice with jurisdiction to hear and determine at first instance, subject to a right of appeal to the Court of Justice on points of law only and in accordance with the conditions laid down by the Statute, certain classes of action or proceeding defined in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 2. At the request of the Court of Justice and after consulting the European Parliament and the Commission, the Council, acting unanimously, shall determine the classes of action or proceeding referred to in paragraph 1 and the composition of the Court of First Instance and shall adopt the necessary adjustments and additional provisions to the Statute of the Court of Justice. Unless the Council decides otherwise, the provisions of this Treaty relating to the Court of Justice, in particular the provisions of the Protocol on the Statute of the Court of Justice, shall apply to the Court of First Instance. The members of the Court of First Instance shall be chosen from persons whose independence is beyond doubt and who possess the ability required for appointment to judicial office; they shall be appointed by common accord of the governments of the Member States for a term of six years. The Court of First Instance shall establish its rules of procedure in agreement with the Court of Justice. Those rules shall require the unanimous approval of the Council. If the Court of Justice finds that a Member State has failed to fulfil an obligation under this Treaty, the State shall be required to take the necessary measures to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice. If the Commission considers that the Member State concerned has not taken such measures it shall, after giving that State the opportunity to submit its observations, issue a reasoned opinion specifying the points on which the Member State concerned has not complied with the judgment of the Court of Justice. If the Court of Justice finds that the Member State concerned has not complied with its judgment it may impose a lump sum or penalty payment on it. `

52) Article 172 shall be replaced by the following:

'Article 172

Regulations adopted jointly by the European Parliament and the Council, and by the Council, pursuant to the provisions of this Treaty, may give the Court of Justice unlimited jurisdiction with regard to the penalties provided for in such regulations. The proceedings provided for in this Article shall be instituted within two months of the publication of the measure, or of its notification to the plaintiff, or, in the absence thereof, of the day on which it came to the knowledge of the latter, as the case may be. If, within two months of being so called upon, the institution concerned has not defined its position, the action may be brought within a further period of two months. Where such a question is raised before any court or tribunal of a Member State, that court or tribunal may, if it considers that a decision on the question is necessary to enable it to give judgment, request the Court of Justice to give a ruling thereon. In this connection, any Member State, the Commission or the Board of Directors of the Bank may institute proceedings under the conditions laid down in Article 173;

(c) measures adopted by the Board of Directors of the European Investment Bank. The members of the Court of Auditors shall be chosen from among persons who belong or have belonged in their respective countries to external audit bodies or who are especially qualified for this office. The members of the Court of Auditors shall be appointed for a term of six years by the Council, acting unanimously after consulting the European Parliament. However, when the first appointments are made, four members of the Court of Auditors, chosen by lot, shall be appointed for a term of office of four years only. The members of the Court of Auditors shall be eligible for reappointment. They shall elect the President of the Court of Auditors from among their number for a term of three years. The members of the Court of Auditors shall, in the general interest of the Community, be completely independent in the performance of their duties. The vacancy thus caused shall be filled for the remainder of the member's term of office. Save in the case of compulsory retirement, members of the Court of Auditors shall remain in office until they have been replaced. A member of the Court of Auditors may be deprived of his office or of his right to a pension or other benefits in its stead only if the Court of Justice, at the request of the Court of Auditors, finds that he no longer fulfils the requisite conditions or meets the obligations arising from his office. The Council, acting by a qualified majority, shall determine the conditions of employment of the President and the members of the Court of Auditors and in particular their salaries, allowances and pensions. It shall also, by the same majority, determine any payment to be made instead of remuneration. The provisions of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities applicable to the Judges of the Court of Justice shall also apply to the members of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors shall examine the accounts of all revenue and expenditure of the Community. It shall also examine the accounts of all revenue and expenditure of all bodies set up by the Community in so far as the relevant constituent instrument does not preclude such examination. The Court of Auditors shall provide the European Parliament and the Council with a statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. The Court of Auditors shall examine whether all revenue has been received and all expenditure incurred in a lawful and regular manner and whether the financial management has been sound. The audit of expenditure shall be carried out on the basis both of commitments undertaken and payments made. These audits may be carried out before the closure of accounts for the financial year in question. The audit shall be based on records and, if necessary, performed on the spot in the other institutions of the Community and in the Member States. In the Member States the audit shall be carried out in liaison with the national audit bodies or, if these do not have the necessary powers, with the competent national departments. These bodies or departments shall inform the Court of Auditors whether they intend to take part in the audit. The Court of Auditors shall draw up an annual report after the close of each financial year. It shall be forwarded to the other institutions of the Community and shall be published, together with the replies of these institutions to the observations of the Court of Auditors, in the Official Journal of the European Communities. The Court of Auditors may also, at any time, submit observations, particularly in the form of special reports, on specific questions and deliver opinions at the request of one of the other institutions of the Community. It shall adopt its annual reports, special reports or opinions by a majority of its members. It shall assist the European Parliament and the Council in exercising their powers of control over the implementation of the budget. Where, in pursuance of this Treaty, the Council acts on a proposal from the Commission, unanimity shall be required for an act constituting an amendment to that proposal, subject to Article 189b(4) and (5). The Commission shall submit a proposal to the European Parliament and the Council. If one of the two institutions fails to approve the proposed act, it shall be deemed not to have been adopted. The Council and the Commission shall inform the European Parliament fully of the reasons which led the Council to adopt its common position and also of the Commission's position. (c) The European Parliament may, within the period of three months referred to in point (b), by an absolute majority of its component members, propose amendments to the Council's common position. The European Parliament may also, by the same majority, reject the Council's common position. (e) The Council, acting by a qualified majority, shall adopt the proposal as re-examined by the Commission. Unanimity shall be required for the Council to amend the proposal as re-examined by the Commission. If no decision is taken within this period, the Commission proposal shall be deemed not to have been adopted. They shall enter into force on the date specified in them or, in the absence thereof, on the twentieth day following that of their publication. Other directives, and decisions, shall be notified to those to whom they are addressed and shall take effect upon such notification. The members of the Committee may not be bound by any mandatory instructions. They shall be completely independent in the performance of their duties, in the general interest of the Community. The Council, acting by a qualified majority, shall determine the allowances of members of the Committee. `

65)Article 196 shall be replaced by the following:

'Article 196

The Committee shall elect its chairman and officers from among its members for a term of two years. The Committee shall be convened by its chairman at the request of the Council or of the Commission. `

66) Article 198 shall be replaced by the following:

'Article 198

The Committee must be consulted by the Council or by the Commission where this Treaty so provides. The Committee may be consulted by these institutions in all cases in which they consider it appropriate. It may issue an opinion on its own initiative in cases in which it considers such action appropriate. The Council or the Commission shall, if it considers it necessary, set the Committee, for the submission of its opinion, a time limit which may not be less than one month from the date on which the chairman receives notification to this effect. Upon expiry of the time limit, the absence of an opinion shall not prevent further action. The opinion of the Committee and that of the specialized section, together with a record of the proceedings, shall be forwarded to the Council and to the Commission. `

68)The following chapter shall be inserted:

'Chapter 5

European Investment Bank

Article 198d

The European Investment Bank shall have legal personality. The Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the European Parliament, shall lay down provisions relating to the system of own resources of the Community, which it shall recommend to the Member States for adoption in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements. The regulations shall lay down detailed rules for each institution concerning its part in effecting its own expenditure. Within the budget, the Commission may, subject to the limits and conditions laid down in the regulations made pursuant to Article 209, transfer appropriations from one chapter to another or from one subdivision to another. The European Parliament, acting on a recommendation from the Council which shall act by a qualified majority, shall give a discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the budget. Before giving a discharge to the Commission, or for any other purpose in connection with the exercise of its powers over the implementation of the budget, the European Parliament may ask to hear the Commission give evidence with regard to the execution of expenditure or the operation of financial control systems. The Commission shall submit any necessary information to the European Parliament at the latter's request. The Commission shall take all appropriate steps to act on the observations in the decisions giving discharge and on other observations by the European Parliament relating to the execution of expenditure, as well as on comments accompanying the recommendations on discharge adopted by the Council. At the request of the European Parliament or the Council, the Commission shall report on the measures taken in the light of these observations and comments and in particular on the instructions given to the departments which are responsible for the implementation of the budget. These reports shall also be forwarded to the Court of Auditors. `

77)The following Article shall be inserted:

'Article 209a

Member States shall take the same measures to counter fraud affecting the financial interests of the Community as they take to counter fraud affecting their own financial interests. Without prejudice to other provisions of this Treaty, Member States shall coordinate their action aimed at protecting the financial interests of the Community against fraud. To this end they shall organize, with the help of the Commission, close and regular cooperation between the competent departments of their administrations. The Commission shall conduct these negotiations in consultation with special committees appointed by the Council to assist it in this task and within the framework of such directives as the Council may issue to it. The Council shall act by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission. Only nationals of the Member States may be members of the Commission. In the event of any breach of these obligations, the Court of Justice may, on application by the Council or the Commission, rule that the member concerned be, according to the circumstances, either compulsorily retired in accordance with Article 12a or deprived of his right to a pension or other benefits in its stead. The procedure laid down in Article 10(2) shall be applicable for the replacement of the President. Save in the case of compulsory retirement under Article 12a, members of the Commission shall remain in office until they have been replaced. Article 13

The Commission shall act by a majority of the number of members provided for in Article 9. It may set up study committees, including an economic study committee. Article 20b

In the course of its duties, the European Parliament may, at the request of a quarter of its members, set up a temporary Committee of Inquiry to investigate, without prejudice to the powers conferred by this Treaty on other institutions or bodies, alleged contraventions or maladministration in the implementation of Community law, except where the alleged facts are being examined before a court and while the case is still subject to legal proceedings. Article 20c

Any citizen of the Union, and any natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a Member State, shall have the right to address, individually or in association with other citizens or persons, a petition to the European Parliament on a matter which comes within the Community's fields of activity and which affects him, her or it directly. `

7) Paragraph 3 of Article 21 shall be replaced by the following:

'3. It may, however, form Chambers, each consisting of three or five Judges, either to undertake certain preparatory inquiries or to adjudicate on particular categories of cases in accordance with the rules laid down for these purposes. `

13) Article 33 shall be replaced by the following:

'Article 33

The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction in actions brought by a Member State or by the Council to have decisions or recommendations of the Commission declared void on grounds of lack of competence, infringement of an essential procedural requirement, infringement of this Treaty or of any rule of law relating to its application, or misuse of powers. The audit of revenue shall be carried out on the basis of the amounts established as due and the amounts actually paid to the Community. To this end they shall organize, with the help of the Commission, close and regular co-operation between the competent departments of their administrations. The Council and the Commission shall be assisted by an Economic and Social Committee acting in an advisory capacity. `

4) The second subparagraph of Article 114 shall be supplemented by the following sentence:

'In this case, the term of office of the members of the Commission appointed to replace them shall expire on the date on which the term of office of the members of the Commission obliged to resign as a body would have expired. `

8) The following Articles shall be inserted:

'Article 125

The Commission shall publish annually, not later than one month before the opening of the session of the European Parliament, a general report on the activities of the Community. Article 129

If any member of the Commission no longer fulfils the conditions required for the performance of his duties or if he has been guilty of serious misconduct, the Court of Justice may, on application by the Council or the Commission, compulsorily retire him. Article 130

The Commission may appoint a Vice-President or two Vice-Presidents from among its members. `

13) Article 146 shall be replaced by the following:

'Article 146

The Court of Justice shall review the legality of acts of the Council and of the Commission, other than recommendations and opinions, and of acts of the European Parliament intended to produce legal effects vis-à-vis third parties. `

21) Article 179 shall be replaced by the following:

'Article 179

The Commission shall implement the budgets, in accordance with the provisions of the regulations made pursuant to Article 183, on its own responsibility and within the limits of the appropriations, having regard to the principles of sound financial management. 23) Article 180b shall be replaced by the following:

'Article 180b

1. The Council shall ensure that these principles are complied with. Whenever it deems it necessary, the Council shall define a common position. In international organizations and at international conferences where not all the Member States participate, those which do take part shall uphold the common positions. The Council shall, when adopting the joint action and at any stage during its development, define those matters on which decisions are to be taken by a qualified majority. The Union requests the Western European Union (WEU), which is an integral part of the development of the Union, to elaborate and implement decisions and actions of the Union which have defence implications. The Council shall, in agreement with the institutions of the WEU, adopt the necessary practical arrangements. With a view to furthering the objective of this Treaty, and having in view the date of 1998 in the context of Article XII of the Brussels Treaty, the provisions of this Article may be revised as provided for in Article N(2) on the basis of a report to be presented in 1996 by the Council to the European Council, which shall include an evaluation of the progress made and the experience gained until then. The European Parliament may ask questions of the Council or make recommendations to it. It shall ensure the unity, consistency and effectiveness of action by the Union. The provisions referred to in Articles 137, 138, 139 to 142, 146, 147, 150 to 153, 157 to 163 and 217 of the Treaty establishing the European Community shall apply to the provisions relating to the areas referred to in this Title. rules governing the crossing by persons of the external borders of the Member States and the exercise of controls thereon;

3. combatting drug addiction in so far as this is not covered by 7 to 9;

5. Where the Council is required to act by a qualified majority, the votes of its members shall be weighted as laid down in Article 148(2) of the Treaty establishing the European Community, and for their adoption, acts of the Council shall require at least fifty-four votes in favour, cast by at least eight members. Each year, it shall hold a debate on the progress made in implementation of the areas referred to in this Title. This agreement shall be submitted for ratification by all the Contracting States in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements. Articles 2 to 7 and 10 to 19 of the Treaty establishing a single Council and a single Commission of the European Communities, signed in Brussels on 8 April 1965, are hereby repealed. This Treaty shall be ratified by the High Contracting Parties in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements. Åéò ðßóôùóç ôùí áíùôÝñù, ïé õðïãåãñáììÝíïé ðëçñåîïýóéïé õðÝãñáøáí ôçí ðáñïýóá óõíèÞêç. Dá fhianú sin, chuir na Lánchumhachtaigh thíos-sínithe a lámh leis an gConradh seo. Em fé do que, os plenipotenciários abaixo assinados apuseram as suas assinaturas no final do presente Tratado. Hecho en Maastricht, el siete de febrero de mil novecientos noventa y dos. Udfærdiget i Maastricht, den syvende februar nitten hundrede og tooghalvfems. Geschehen zu Maastricht am siebten Februar neunzehnhundertzweiundneunzig. ¸ãéíå óôï ÌÜáóôñé÷ô, óôéò åöôÜ Öåâñïõáñßïõ ÷ßëéá åííéáêüóéá åíåíÞíôá äýï. Done at Maastricht on the seventh day of February in the year one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two. Fait à Maastricht, le sept février mil neuf cent quatre-vingt-douze. Arna dhéanamh i Maastricht, an seachtú lá d'Fheabhra, míle naoi gcéad nócha a dó. Fatto a Maastricht, addì sette febbraio millenovecentonovantadue. Gedaan te Maastricht, de zevende februari negentienhonderd twee-en-negentig. Feito em Maastricht, em sete de Fevereiro de mil novecentos e noventa e dois. The Institut monétaire luxembourgeois will be the central bank of Luxembourg. In accordance with Article 105(2) of this Treaty, the basic tasks to be carried out through the ESCB shall be:

- to define and implement the monetary policy of the Community;

- to conduct foreign exchange operations consistent with the provisions of Article 109 of this Treaty;

- to hold and manage the official foreign reserves of the Member States;

- to promote the smooth operation of payment systems. The national central banks shall carry out, to the extent possible, the tasks described in Article 5.1. In accordance with Article 109a(1) of this Treaty, the Governing Council shall comprise the members of the Executive Board of the ECB and the Governors of the national central banks. In the event of a tie, the President shall have the casting vote. If a Governor is unable to be present, he may nominate an alternate to cast his weighted vote. The members of the Executive Board shall not have the right to vote on matters referred to in this paragraph. Article 12

Responsibilities of the decision-making bodies

12.1. To the extent deemed possible and appropriate and without prejudice to the provisions of this Article, the ECB shall have recourse to the national central banks to carry out operations which form part of the tasks of the ESCB. A Governor may be relieved from office only if he no longer fulfils the conditions required for the performance of his duties or if he has been guilty of serious misconduct. Such functions shall be performed on the responsibility and liability of national central banks and shall not be regarded as being part of the functions of the ESCB. Article 16

Bank notes

In accordance with Article 105a(1) of this Treaty, the Governing Council shall have the exclusive right to authorize the issue of bank notes within the Community. Article 22

Clearing and payment systems

The ECB and national central banks may provide facilities, and the ECB may make regulations, to ensure efficient and sound clearing and payment systems within the Community and with other countries. The annual accounts of the ECB shall be drawn up by the Executive Board, in accordance with the principles established by the Governing Council. The accounts shall be approved by the Governing Council and shall thereafter be published. The capital of the ECB, which shall become operational upon its establishment, shall be ECU 5 000 million. The Governing Council shall take all other measures necessary for the application of this Article. Article 30

Transfer of foreign reserve assets to the ECB

30.1. The Governing Council shall decide upon the proportion to be called up by the ECB following its establishment and the amounts called up at later dates. Article 31

Foreign reserve assets held by national central banks

31.1. All other operations in foreign reserve assets remaining with the national central banks after the transfers referred to in Article 30, and Member States' transactions with their foreign exchange working balances shall, above a certain limit to be established within the framework of Article 31.3, be subject to approval by the ECB in order to ensure consistency with the exchange rate and monetary policies of the Community. The amount of each national central bank's monetary income shall be reduced by an amount equivalent to any interest paid by that central bank on its deposit liabilities to credit institutions in accordance with Article 19. Article 33

Allocation of net profits and losses of the ECB

33.1. CHAPTER VII

GENERAL PROVISIONS

Article 34

Legal acts

34.1. The ECB shall be subject to the liability regime provided for in Article 215 of this Treaty. A decision of the ECB to bring an action before the Court of Justice shall be taken by the Governing Council. Article 37

Seat

Before the end of 1992, the decision as to where the seat of the ECB will be established shall be taken by common accord of the governments of the Member States at the level of Heads of State or of Government. Persons having access to data covered by Community legislation imposing an obligation of secrecy shall be subject to such legislation. Article 39

Signatories

The ECB shall be legally committed to third parties by the President or by two members of the Executive Board or by the signatures of two members of the staff of the ECB who have been duly authorized by the President to sign on behalf of the ECB. In accordance with Article 106(5) of this Treaty, Articles 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 17, 18, 19.1, 22, 23, 24, 26, 32.2, 32.3, 32.4, 32.6, 33.1(a) and 36 of this Statute may be amended by the Council, acting either by a qualified majority on a recommendation from the ECB and after consulting the Commission, or unanimously on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the ECB. In either case the assent of the European Parliament shall be required. CHAPTER IX

TRANSITIONAL AND OTHER PROVISIONS

FOR THE ESCB

Article 43

General provisions

43.1. Shareholders` shall be read as 'central banks of Member States without a derogation` in Articles 10.3 and 33.1. Article 48

Transitional provisions for the capital of the ECB

In accordance with Article 29.1 each national central bank shall be assigned a weighting in the key for subscription of the ECB's capital. Article 50

Initial appointment of the members

of the Executive Board

When the Executive Board of the ECB is being established, the President, the Vice-President and the other members of the Executive Board shall be appointed by common accord of the governments of the Member States at the level of Heads of State or of Government, on a recommendation from the Council and after consulting the European Parliament and the Council of the EMI. Article 52

Exchange of bank notes in Community currencies

Following the irrevocable fixing of exchange rates, the Governing Council shall take the necessary measures to ensure that bank notes denominated in currencies with irrevocably fixed exchange rates are exchanged by the national central banks at their respective par values. The EMI shall also:

- hold regular consultations concerning the course of monetary policies and the use of monetary policy instruments;

- normally be consulted by the national monetary authorities before they take decisions on the course of monetary policy in the context of the common framework for ex ante coordination. In exercising the powers and performing the tasks and duties conferred upon them by this Treaty and this Statute, the Council of the EMI may not seek or take any instructions from Community institutions or bodies or governments of Member States. The President and Vice-President shall be appointed for a period of three years. In the absence of the President, his duties shall be performed by the Vice-President. The terms and conditions of employment of the President, in particular his salary, pension and other social security benefits, shall be the subject of a contract with the EMI and shall be fixed by the Council of the EMI on a proposal from a Committee comprising three members appointed by the Committee of Governors or the Council of the EMI, as the case may be, and three members appointed by the Council. The Rules of Procedure of the EMI shall be adopted by the Council of the EMI. Decisions to be taken in the context of Articles 4.2, 5.4, 6.2 and 6.3 shall require unanimity of the members of the Council of the EMI. The President of the Council and a member of the Commission may participate, without having the right to vote, in meetings of the Council of the EMI. Opinions and recommendations of the EMI shall have no binding force. The Council of the EMI may adopt guidelines laying down the methods for the implementation of the conditions necessary for the ESCB to perform its functions in the third stage. The Council of the EMI shall determine the form in which contributions shall be paid up. The financial year of the EMI shall begin on the first day of January and end on the last day of December. The annual accounts shall be audited by independent external auditors approved by the Council of the EMI. A decision of the EMI to bring an action before the Court of Justice shall be taken by the Council of the EMI. Inflation shall be measured by means of the consumer price index on a comparable basis, taking into account differences in national definitions. The activities of the Bank and of its organs carried on in accordance with the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank shall not be subject to any turnover tax. This Protocol shall be annexed to the Treaty establishing the European Community. PROTOCOL on certain provisions relating to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

THE HIGH CONTRACTING PARTIES,

RECOGNIZING that the United Kingdom shall not be obliged or committed to move to the third stage of Economic and Monetary Union without a separate decision to do so by its government and Parliament,

NOTING the practice of the government of the United Kingdom to fund its borrowing requirement by the sale of debt to the private sector,

HAVE AGREED the following provisions, which shall be annexed to the Treaty establishing the European Community:

1. If no date is set for the beginning of the third stage under Article 109j(3) of this Treaty, the United Kingdom may notify its intention to move to the third stage before 1 January 1998. In these provisions references to the Community or the Member States shall not include the United Kingdom and references to national central banks shall not include the Bank of England. (c) The Council, acting under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 109l(5) of this Treaty, shall take all other necessary decisions to enable the United Kingdom to move to the third stage. In the event of a notification that Denmark will not participate in the third stage, Denmark shall have an exemption. Such directives shall avoid imposing administrative, financial and legal constraints in a way which would hold back the creation and development of small and medium-sized undertakings. The Commission shall have the task of promoting the consultation of management and labour at Community level and shall take any relevant measure to facilitate their dialogue by ensuring balanced support for the parties. Management and labour shall forward to the Commission an opinion or, where appropriate, a recommendation. Article 5

With a view to achieving the objectives of Article 1 and without prejudice to the other provisions of the Treaty, the Commission shall encourage cooperation between the Member States and facilitate the coordination of their action in all social policy fields under this Agreement. For the purpose of this Article, 'pay` means the ordinary basic or minimum wage or salary and any other consideration, whether in cash or in kind, which the worker receives directly or indirectly, in respect of his employment, from his employer. Equal pay without discrimination based on sex means:

(a) that pay for the same work at piece rates shall be calculated on the basis of the same unit of measurement;

(b)that pay for work at time rates shall be the same for the same job. This Article shall not prevent any Member State from maintaining or adopting measures providing for specific advantages in order to make it easier for women to pursue a vocational activity or to prevent or compensate for disadvantages in their professional careers. Protocol on the Statute of the European system of central banks and of the European Central Bank

4. Protocol amending the Protocol on the privileges and immunities of the European Communities

8. Protocol on the transition to the third stage of economic and monetary union

11. Protocol on certain provisions relating to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

12. Protocol on the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions

17. Declaration on Part Three, Title VI, of the Treaty establishing the European Community

5. Declaration on monetary cooperation with non-Community countries

6. Declaration on Article 109 of the Treaty establishing the European Community

9. Declaration on the Directive of 24 November 1988 (Emissions)

12. Declaration on the role of national Parliaments in the European Union

14. Declaration on practical arrangements in the field of the common foreign and security policy

29. Declaration on disputes between the ECB and the EMI and their servants

Done at Maastricht this seventh day of February in the year one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two. DECLARATION on nationality of a Member State

The Conference declares that, wherever in the Treaty establishing the European Community reference is made to nationals of the Member States, the question whether an individual possesses the nationality of a Member State shall be settled solely by reference to the national law of the Member State concerned. DECLARATION on the role of national Parliaments in the European Union

The Conference considers that it is important to encourage greater involvement of national Parliaments in the activities of the European Union. The decisions will be taken in the light, inter alia, of the need to establish the overall size of the European Parliament in an enlarged Community. It asks the Commission to publish periodically a full report for the Member States and the European Parliament. It requests the other Community institutions to consider, together with the Court of Auditors, all appropriate ways of enhancing the effectiveness of its work. For COREU communications, the current practice of European Political Cooperation will serve as a guide for the time being. This identity will be pursued through a gradual process involving successive phases. To this end, it will formulate common European defence policy and carry forward its concrete implementation through the further development of its own operational role. The objective is to build up WEU in stages as the defence component of the European Union. The objective is to develop WEU as a means to strengthen the European pillar of the Atlantic Alliance. WEU will act in conformity with the positions adopted in the Atlantic Alliance. WEU's operational role will be strengthened by examining and defining appropriate missions, structures and means, covering in particular:

- WEU planning cell;

- closer military cooperation complementary to the Alliance in particular in the fields of logistics, transport, training and strategic surveillance;

- meetings of WEU Chiefs of Defence Staff;

- military units answerable to WEU. Other proposals will be examined further, including:

- enhanced cooperation in the field of armaments with the aim of creating a European armaments agency;

- development of the WEU Institute into a European Security and Defence Academy. Arrangements aimed at giving WEU a stronger operational role will be fully compatible with the military dispositions necessary to ensure the collective defence of all Allies.